# Codebook

### Feature Selection 
=================

The following is adapted from the original dataset's README, as this project mainly cleans up that data and does some very simple transformations.

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

- tBodyAcc.XYZ
- tGravityAcc.XYZ
- tBodyAccJerk.XYZ
- tBodyGyro.XYZ
- tBodyGyroJerk.XYZ
- tBodyAccMag
- tGravityAccMag
- tBodyAccJerkMag
- tBodyGyroMag
- tBodyGyroJerkMag
- fBodyAcc.XYZ
- fBodyAccJerk.XYZ
- fBodyGyro.XYZ
- fBodyAccMag
- fBodyAccJerkMag
- fBodyGyroMag
- fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

- mean: Mean value
- std: Standard deviation

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

- gravityMean
- tBodyAccMean
- tBodyAccJerkMean
- tBodyGyroMean
- tBodyGyroJerkMean

Additionally, the subject number and activity performed are included. The column names are:

- subject.num: a number 1-30 representing the person performing the activity
- activity: one of "LAYING" "SITTING" "STANDING" "WALKING" "WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS" or "WALKING_UPSTAIRS"

All of this data in full detail, is written out by the script run_analysis.R into a csv file, with headers, into "activity_data_full.csv".

A second, smaller dataset is also provided (and generated by run_analysis.R). It contains all of the same columns, except that for each subject and activity, it contains only one row with the mean of the measurements. It is available as a csv file, without headers, in "activity_data_means.txt"